---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "YugabyteDB Anywhere Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Terraform Provider to configure and manage entities in YugabyteDB Anywhere
---

# YugabyteDB Anywhere Provider

[YugabyteDB](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db) is a high-performance, cloud-native distributed SQL database that aims to support all PostgreSQL features. It is a best fit for cloud-native OLTP (i.e. real-time, business-critical) applications that need absolute data correctness and require at least one of the following: scalability, high tolerance to failures, or globally-distributed deployments.
[YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://www.yugabyte.com/anywhere/) is a control plane for managing YugabyteDB universes across hybrid and multi-cloud environments, and provides automation and orchestration capabilities.

The YugabyteDB Anywhere Provider currently supports the following YugabyteDB Anywhere entities::

- Data Sources:
  - Backup Information (yb_backup_info)
  - Cloud Provider Access Key Information (yb_provider_key)
  - Available YBDB Release Versions (yb_release_version)
  - Storage Configuration Information (yb_storage_configs)

- Resources:
  - Backup Schedules (yb_backups)
  - Cloud Providers (yb_cloud_provider), with support for
    - GCP
    - AWS
    - Azure
  - Customer (yb_customer_resource)
  - YugabyteDB Anywhere Installation via Replicated (yb_installation)
  - YBDB Release Import (yb_releases)
  - Restores (yb_restore)
  - Storage Configuration (yb_storage_config_resource) referring to Backup Target Storage Configuration
  - Universe (yb_universe)

The provider needs to be configured with appropriate credentials before it can be used.

-> **Note:** The YugabyteDB Anywhere Terraform Provider is currently in Early Access and testing is currently in progress.

~> **Note:** The YugabyteDB Anywhere Terraform provider supports YugabyteDB Anywhere version 2.17.3 and later.

~> **Note:** Kubernetes and On-Prem universes are currently not supported.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "yb" {
  // unauthenticated - to use provider for installation of YugabyteDB Anywhere and customer creation  
  alias = "unauthenticated"
  host  = "<host-ip-address>:80"
}

provider "yb" {
  // after customer creation, use authenticated provider
  host      = "<host-ip-address>:80"
  api_token = "<customer-api-token>"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- **api_token** (String) YugabyteDB Anywhere Customer API Token.
- **host** (String) IP address and port for the YugabyteDB Anywhere host. Use port 80 to connect to the YugabyteDB Anywhere application.

## Configuration

Configuration for the YugabyteDB Anywhere provider is derived from the following sources, in order:

1. Parameters in the provider configuration
1. Environment variables

Configuration can be provided by adding a `host` and optionally `api_token`, to the `yb` provider block.

Usage:

```terraform
provider "yb" {
  host      = "<host-ip-address>:80"
  api_token = "<customer-api-token>"
}
```

### Environment Variables

Configuration can also be provided by using the `YB_HOST` and `YB_API_KEY` environment variables.

For example:

```terraform
provider "yb" {}
```

```sh
export YB_HOST="<host-ip-address>:80"
export YB_API_KEY="<customer-api-token>"
terraform plan
```

-> **Note:** Installation of YugabyteDB Anywhere and customer creation do not require a Customer API Token. All subsequent operations, including reading the customer resource and creating cloud providers, universes, and so on, require a fresh yb provider to be defined with the [API token](https://api-docs.yugabyte.com/docs/yugabyte-platform/f10502c9c9623-yugabyte-db-anywhere-api-overview#api-tokens-and-uuids). Failing to do so would result in a ***403 Forbidden*** error while accessing the resources.
