---
page_title: "yba_onprem_provider Resource - YugabyteDB Anywhere"
description: |-
  On-Premises Provider Resource. Use this resource to create and manage on-premises providers in YugabyteDB Anywhere. To utilize the provider in universes, manage instance types and node instances using instancetypes and nodeinstances blocks.
---

# yba_onprem_provider (Resource)

On-Premises Provider Resource. Use this resource to create and manage on-premises providers in YugabyteDB Anywhere. To utilize the provider in universes, manage instance types and node instances using instance_types and node_instances blocks.

For information on configuring on-premises providers, refer to [Create provider configuration](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises/).

~> **Warning:** YugabyteDB Anywhere Terraform Provider currently provides a standalone On-Premises Node Instance (*yba_onprem_node_instance*) resource, and allows Node Instances to be defined in-line in the On-Premises Provider (*yba_onprem_provider*) resource. Currently, you can't use an On-Premises Provider with in-line Node Instances in conjunction with any On-Premises Node Instance resources. Doing so will cause a conflict and might result in removal of nodes managed by the provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Basic On-Premises Provider with manual provisioning
resource "yba_onprem_provider" "example" {
  name             = "onprem-provider"
  ssh_user         = "yugabyte"
  ssh_keypair_name = "my-keypair"

  ssh_private_key_content = file("~/.ssh/my-keypair.pem")

  skip_provisioning        = true
  passwordless_sudo_access = true

  regions {
    code = "us-west"

    zones {
      code = "us-west-az1"
    }
    zones {
      code = "us-west-az2"
    }
  }

  instance_types {
    instance_type_code = "c5.large"
    num_cores          = 2
    mem_size_gb        = 4
    volume_size_gb     = 100
  }

  node_instances {
    ip            = "10.0.0.1"
    region_name   = "us-west"
    zone_name     = "us-west-az1"
    instance_type = "c5.large"
  }

  node_instances {
    ip            = "10.0.0.2"
    region_name   = "us-west"
    zone_name     = "us-west-az2"
    instance_type = "c5.large"
  }
}

# On-Premises Provider with auto-provisioning
resource "yba_onprem_provider" "provisioned" {
  name             = "onprem-auto-provisioned"
  ssh_user         = "yugabyte"
  ssh_keypair_name = "my-keypair"

  ssh_private_key_content = file("~/.ssh/my-keypair.pem")

  skip_provisioning        = false
  passwordless_sudo_access = true
  install_node_exporter    = true
  node_exporter_port       = 9300

  regions {
    code      = "dc1"
    latitude  = 37.7749
    longitude = -122.4194

    zones {
      code = "dc1-rack1"
    }
  }

  instance_types {
    instance_type_code = "large"
    num_cores          = 4
    mem_size_gb        = 16
    volume_size_gb     = 200
  }

  node_instances {
    ip            = "192.168.1.10"
    region_name   = "dc1"
    zone_name     = "dc1-rack1"
    instance_type = "large"
    instance_name = "node-1"
  }
}

# On-Premises Provider with multiple regions and NTP
resource "yba_onprem_provider" "multi_region" {
  name     = "onprem-multi-region"
  ssh_user = "centos"

  ssh_keypair_name        = "my-keypair"
  ssh_private_key_content = file("~/.ssh/my-keypair.pem")

  skip_provisioning        = true
  passwordless_sudo_access = true

  set_up_chrony = true
  ntp_servers   = ["pool.ntp.org", "time.google.com"]

  regions {
    code = "us-east"

    zones {
      code = "us-east-az1"
    }
  }

  regions {
    code = "us-west"

    zones {
      code = "us-west-az1"
    }
  }

  instance_types {
    instance_type_code = "standard"
    num_cores          = 8
    mem_size_gb        = 32
    volume_size_gb     = 500
  }
}
```


To manually provision the nodes to be used in universe creation, set *details.skip_provisioning* to *true* and do one of the following:

- Run the pre-provisioning script. The output of the provider would have the field *provision_instance_script* in *details*. Using the script, follow the steps provided in [Manual setup with script](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises-script/). Command format is as follows:
  ```sh
  <Output of yba_onprem_provider.onprem.details[0].provision_instance_script> --ip <node instance ip> --mount_points <mount points>
  ```

- Fully manual setup. This is only required if the SSH user does not have sudo access when *skip_provisioning* is *true*. Steps are provided in [Fully manual setup](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises-manual/).

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the provider.
- `regions` (Block List, Min: 1) Regions for the on-premises provider. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--regions))

### Optional

- `access_keys` (Block List, Max: 1, Deprecated) Deprecated: Access key configuration. Use ssh_keypair_name and ssh_private_key_content instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--access_keys))
- `air_gap_install` (Boolean) Whether YugabyteDB nodes are installed in an air-gapped environment. Default is false.
- `details` (Block List, Max: 1, Deprecated) Deprecated: Provider details. Use flat fields instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--details))
- `install_node_exporter` (Boolean) Whether to install Node Exporter. Default is true.
- `instance_types` (Block List) Instance types for the on-premises provider. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--instance_types))
- `node_exporter_port` (Number) Node Exporter port. Default is 9300.
- `node_exporter_user` (String) Node Exporter user. Default is 'prometheus'.
- `node_instances` (Block List) Node instances for the on-premises provider. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--node_instances))
- `ntp_servers` (List of String) List of NTP servers. Can be provided as separate values.
- `passwordless_sudo_access` (Boolean) Whether sudo actions can be carried out without a password. Default is true.
- `provision_instance_script` (String) Custom provisioning script path for node instances. Used during universe creation if skip_provisioning is false.
- `set_up_chrony` (Boolean) Set up NTP chrony service. When true, chrony will be configured with the specified ntp_servers. For on-premises providers, ntp_servers must be provided when set_up_chrony is true. When false, assumes NTP is pre-configured in the machine image. Default is false.
- `skip_provisioning` (Boolean) Set to true if YugabyteDB nodes have been prepared manually. Set to false to provision during universe creation. Default is false.
- `ssh_keypair_name` (String) SSH key pair name to access YugabyteDB nodes. Must be set together with ssh_private_key_content. Required when skip_provisioning is false. YBA versions keys on every update: if a key with this name already exists it appends a timestamp (e.g. 'my-key-2026-03-18-10-01-29'). Use access_key_code to read the actual versioned name that was stored.
- `ssh_port` (Number) SSH port. Default is 22.
- `ssh_private_key_content` (String, Sensitive) SSH private key content to access YugabyteDB nodes. Must be set together with ssh_keypair_name. Required when skip_provisioning is false. Not read back from the API (the API does not return key content).
- `ssh_user` (String) SSH User to access YugabyteDB nodes. Required when skip_provisioning is false.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `use_clockbound` (Boolean) Use ClockBound for clock synchronization. Requires ClockBound to be set up on the nodes. Default is false.
- `yb_home_dir` (String) YugabyteDB home directory.

### Read-Only

- `access_key_code` (String) Access key code for this provider. Read-only, generated by YBA.
- `enable_node_agent` (Boolean) Flag indicating if node agent is enabled for this provider. Read-only.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `show_set_up_chrony` (Boolean) Flag indicating whether to show the NTP setup option in the UI. Read-only, set by YBA based on provider creation time.
- `version` (Number) Version of the provider.

<a id="nestedblock--regions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `regions`

Required:

- `code` (String) Region code.
- `zones` (Block List, Min: 1) Zones for this region. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--regions--zones))

Optional:

- `latitude` (Number) Latitude of the region. Default is 0.0.
- `longitude` (Number) Longitude of the region. Default is 0.0.

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) Region name.
- `uuid` (String) Region UUID.

<a id="nestedblock--regions--zones"></a>
### Nested Schema for `regions.zones`

Required:

- `code` (String) Zone code.

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) Zone name.
- `uuid` (String) Zone UUID.



<a id="nestedblock--access_keys"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access_keys`

Optional:

- `key_info` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--access_keys--key_info))

Read-Only:

- `access_key_id` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--access_keys--access_key_id))
- `creation_date` (String)
- `expiration_date` (String)

<a id="nestedblock--access_keys--key_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access_keys.key_info`

Optional:

- `key_pair_name` (String)
- `ssh_private_key_content` (String, Sensitive)
- `ssh_private_key_file_path` (String)

Read-Only:

- `air_gap_install` (Boolean)
- `install_node_exporter` (Boolean)
- `node_exporter_port` (Number)
- `node_exporter_user` (String)
- `passwordless_sudo_access` (Boolean)
- `skip_provisioning` (Boolean)
- `ssh_port` (Number)
- `ssh_user` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--access_keys--access_key_id"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access_keys.access_key_id`

Read-Only:

- `keycode` (String)
- `provider_uuid` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--details"></a>
### Nested Schema for `details`

Optional:

- `air_gap_install` (Boolean)
- `install_node_exporter` (Boolean)
- `node_exporter_port` (Number)
- `node_exporter_user` (String)
- `ntp_servers` (List of String)
- `passwordless_sudo_access` (Boolean)
- `skip_provisioning` (Boolean)
- `ssh_port` (Number)
- `ssh_user` (String)
- `yb_home_dir` (String)

Read-Only:

- `provision_instance_script` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--instance_types"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instance_types`

Required:

- `instance_type_code` (String) Instance type code (e.g., 'c5.large').
- `mem_size_gb` (Number) Memory size in GB.
- `num_cores` (Number) Number of CPU cores.

Optional:

- `mount_paths` (String) Comma-separated mount paths for volumes.
- `volume_size_gb` (Number) Volume size in GB. Default is 100.
- `volume_type` (String) Volume type (e.g., EBS, SSD, HDD, NVME). Default is SSD.


<a id="nestedblock--node_instances"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_instances`

Required:

- `instance_type` (String) Instance type for this node.
- `ip` (String) IP address of the node.
- `region_name` (String) Region name for this node.
- `zone_name` (String) Zone name for this node.

Read-Only:

- `in_use` (Boolean) Whether the node is currently in use.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `update` (String)

## Import

On-premises providers can be imported using `provider uuid`:

```sh
terraform import yba_onprem_provider.onprem <provider-uuid>
```
