---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "yb_cloud_provider Resource - terraform-provider-yugabyte-anywhere"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Cloud Provider Resource
---

# yb_cloud_provider (Resource)

Cloud Provider Resource



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **connection_info** (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--connection_info))
- **regions** (Block List, Min: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--regions))

### Optional

- **air_gap_install** (Boolean) Flag indicating if the universe should use an air-gapped installation
- **code** (String) Code of the cloud provider. Permitted values: gcp, aws, azu
- **computed_config** (Map of String) Same as config field except some additional values may have been returned by the server.
- **config** (Map of String) Configuration values to be set for the provider. AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY must be set for AWS providers. The contents of your google credentials must be included here for GCP providers. AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID, AZURE_RG, AZURE_TENANT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET must be set for AZURE providers.
- **custom_host_cidrs** (List of String)
- **dest_vpc_id** (String)
- **host_vpc_id** (String)
- **host_vpc_region** (String)
- **hosted_zone_id** (String)
- **hosted_zone_name** (String)
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **key_pair_name** (String)
- **name** (String) Name of the provider
- **ssh_port** (Number) Port to use for ssh commands
- **ssh_private_key_content** (String) Private key to use for ssh commands
- **ssh_user** (String) User to use for ssh commands

### Read-Only

- **active** (Boolean) Flag indicating if the provider is active

<a id="nestedblock--connection_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `connection_info`

Required:

- **api_token** (String) The API Token for the customer. This can be found in the YugabyteDB Anywhere Portal and is also returned when a customer resource is created
- **cuuid** (String) UUID for the customer associated with the resource/data source.


<a id="nestedblock--regions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `regions`

Optional:

- **code** (String) Region code. Varies by cloud provider
- **config** (Map of String)
- **name** (String) Name of the region. Varies by cloud provider
- **security_group_id** (String) Security group ID to use for this region. Only set for AWS providers
- **vnet_name** (String) Name of the virtual network to use for this region. Only set for Azure providers
- **yb_image** (String)
- **zones** (Block List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--regions--zones))

Read-Only:

- **latitude** (Number)
- **longitude** (Number)
- **uuid** (String) Region UUID

<a id="nestedblock--regions--zones"></a>
### Nested Schema for `regions.zones`

Optional:

- **code** (String) Code of the zone. Varies by cloud provider.
- **config** (Map of String)
- **name** (String) Name of the zone. Varies by cloud provider.
- **secondary_subnet** (String)
- **subnet** (String) Subnet to use for this zone

Read-Only:

- **active** (Boolean) Flag indicating if the zone is active
- **kube_config_path** (String)
- **uuid** (String) Zone UUID


